IDF spokesman,
Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conr
joins us now from Tel Aviv.
Colonel, thanks very much.
I want to ask you about
what's taking place right now
with the Al-Shifa Hospital
What can you tell us about
what's being done to make sure
some of these innocent
civilians can get out of there,
the babies that have been talked
and so on?
What is going on there
with this hospital?
What can you share?
Hi, Jim.
Thank you for having me.
We are on day 36 of the war
and 239
Israeli hostages are still
being held in Gaza.
Regarding the hospital,
we are in contact with local aut
in Gaza with the manager and oth
and assisting them
and then informing them
where they can go in order
to evacuate from the area.
And we are also trying to coordi
the safe removal and transport
of the remaining patients
that are still inside the hospit
I want to emphasize,
we haven't struck the hospital
and we are not
surrounding it or
applying any pressure on it.
We have troops in the vicinity,
but we have not been engaging
with the hospital or any parts o
And so I guess
maybe you can help us clear this
Why is it that the health minist
claims that the hospital
is completely surrounded?
We've also heard from a spokespe
from the Israeli military,
I guess
one of your counterparts
at a wing of that
hospital is still open
for people to safely evacuate.
Help us sort that out.
What's going on?
Yeah, indeed.
That is what we've told
the Palestinians
as well, that the Eastern wing i
and that all of the people that
there, the displaced persons
that have been seeking shelter,
as well as others
who are in the compound, can mov
And we have instructed them,
even by the names of streets
and locations where they should
When we will do
the next humanitarian window.
As you know, we've been doing th
for the last five days
in various locations in the Gaza
where we've been stopping our fi
calling Palestinians
and telling them to evacuate.
The main road is
Salahadin, the main
thoroughfare of the Gaza Strip,
but then also Al-Rashid Street,
the coastal road.
We've opened that up as well
during select hours of the day,
hours,
which allows Palestinians to mov
and to go to relative safety
in the south.
Again, under our commitment
not to strike civilians
and out of respect
for the sanctity of human life,
which is much more than
what Hamas is doing at this time
And so what can you tell us
about these reports
that we're seeing about tanks
surrounding the hospital?
Is that happening?
And are you conducting an operat
in that area?
I know you said in the past,
Colonel, that you don't target h
and that sort of thing.
But you've also said
and others have said
with the IDF
that sometimes
the hospitals
and these kinds of civilian faci
are used by Hamas for their oper
And so is there an operation?
Is there an IDF operation
going on in that area to find th
and around that facility, that h
Yeah, our troops are definitely
We have
troops that have approached
that area from various locations
We have to understand that
the viewers
who may not have been following
are just joining
that the Shifa
compound is indeed in hospital,
but underneath are layers
and layers of Hamas military act
that they have established
underneath the hospital
whereby they are using the hospi
for military needs, which is a w
It's against the Geneva Conventi
They are endangering the protect
of the hospital by doing so.
And what we have done,
first and foremost,
is to inform the Palestinians
and also the world that we know
that Hamas is using the hospital
for military purposes.
We know that it is
full of Hamas combatants
that are seeking shelter
and trying to hide away from our
underneath the hospital.
That is also one of the reasons
why we are trying to evacuate it
because we don't want Hamas
to continue to use these people
human shields in the future.
I mean, that sounds like
a very difficult
and complicated operation
that you're trying to undertake.
Then
what happens to the hospital
at the end of all of this is doe
the IDF seek to control it, take
I mean, if you have to get at Ha
terrorists who are hiding inside
tunnels underneath the hospital,
one would think
at some point
you have to take over the hospit
or take over the area
around that hospital.
Is that something that you're
seeking to do?
Well, I agree with you totally t
it is a very complex situation
and one that we would rather
not find ourselves in.
But ever since October
the seventh,
we are in this situation
where we have to fight inside Ga
and we have to strike Hamas
wherever there are hiding
underneath civilians in the tunn
and also underneath hospitals.
And our aim is to dismantle all
military infrastructure
and Hamas has embedded
a significant portion
of their military capability,
specifically under Shifa.
And it is our aim to dismantle
all of their military capabiliti
I cannot go into further details
about what, when and where will
I can say that it would be best
for everybody involved,
including those
who will need the hospital
the day after the war, for Hamas
to come out of their hiding
and stop abusing
civilian infrastructure
for military purposes.
If they don't, of course,
we will have to respond accordin
implement our military plans.
And Colonel, I'm sure you saw th
that the secretary of state,
Tony Blinken,
of course, he's
a part of the Biden administrati
and they've been very supportive
of the Israeli
government, of the IDF
throughout all of this.
But the secretary of state did s
in the last day
or so that there have been too m
Palestinians killed in the
Israeli operation in Gaza.
What's the response to that?
Well, I agree that there are man
that have been killed,
and I am
sad about civilians
that have nothing to do with fig
who are killed
or wounded or displaced by fight
That is not our goal.
And I think that the Israeli gov
and the military
has been very
clear and forthcoming
that we are not fighting
against the civilians.
We try to do everything
we can
to get them out of the battlefie
so that we can focus on fighting
And I think that the government
and the military
and we are talking,
you know, at the military level,
we are communicating
with our military counterparts.
We're not only telling them
what we're doing,
we're showing them what we are d
and what Hamas is doing, their v
and how they are using the civil
as human shields.
And we are showing what we are d
the measures that we are impleme
in order to minimize the damage
to civilians.
I definitely hope that, you know
these numbers can come down
and what we are
achieving is basically
we're emptying
northern Gaza of civilians tempo
Exactly.
In order to minimize and lower
the amount of civilian casualtie
that is our aim,
because we seek that operational
to be able to go after Hamas.
And Hamas is under pressure.
You know, they're under pressure
They're indicating
that they're under pressure.
There have been reports of them
shooting at evacuees
and all
kinds of efforts by Hamas
to stop evacuations in various l
We understand
that they're under pressure
because they want
these civilian casualties
occurring to that point
because of the difficulty
and dealing with
these humanitarian pauses
and opening them up
and opening up these corridors a
The president of the United Stat
President Biden, did say in
just the last couple of days
that he thinks that
these pauses need to be longer.
Are you open to that longer paus
Yeah.
You know, already on the ground,
these pauses,
they have an effect on our comba
rhythm and the ability
to conduct our missions
because you know,
when you apply pressure on your
you want that pressure to be rel
And the fact that we stopped
during many hours of the day
has a price for us, a combat pri
it what we already have done.
Also responding to those request
and statements made by the presi
and others is to add hours
It started with 4 hours
and now it's five.
Maybe it will be expanded more.
We added another round. Right.
It was only the central route.
And now
we've opened up
a northern route
as well along the coast,
Al-Rasheed Street,
in addition to Salahadin.
So we are definitely listening.
We're definitely
trying to find good ways
of evacuating civilians
to minimize the effect on them
while still doing what we need t
And this is important.
We're not in Gaza
for the or the amusement of it.
We are there
because we are fighting Hamas.
They need to be dismantled.
Otherwise we won't be able to li
in southern Israel.
And we need to get our hostages
And I understand that.
And but you brought up hostages.
One of the items that has been d
in all of this is
and you're
probably aware of this,
there are multiple parties
involved in these kinds of talks
that the longer
the humanitarian pause is potent
that could lead
to the release of hostages.
There have been negotiations
going on to that end.
Are you open to that
Yeah, I'm
not entirely sure
that that
is the correct working assumptio
I think that what Hamas is tryin
both its internal leadership
and its
overseas or external leadership,
they're basically trying to play
and they're trying to force
Israel through international pre
while using the hostages,
the poor, women,
children, babies and elderly peo
that they've been holding
for more than 36 days.
They're using them as leverage
in order
to get the IDF to back off and r
in our military pressure.
And I think that Israel has been
there won't be any kind of cease
before we get hostages back.
Talking can be done.
That's all fine.
But there needs to be continuous
pressure on Hamas.
That is the only thing that is e
And by the way,
maneuvering on the ground,
creating that kind of friction
on the ground between us
and enemy forces,
creates intelligence
and creates other opportunities
that hopefully
we will be able to leverage in
order to get our people home.
Okay.
Lieutenant Colonel
Jonathan Conricus, thank you
once again for your time.
We appreciate it this evening.
Thank you. Thank you for having